---
{title: spinw.genmagstr method, link: spinw.genmagstr, summary: generates magnetic
    structure, keywords: sample, sidebar: sw_sidebar, permalink: spinw_genmagstr,
  folder: spinw, mathjax: 'true'}

---
  
### Syntax
  
`genmagstr(obj,Name,Value)`
  
### Description
  
`genmagstr(obj,Name,Value)` is a Swiss knife for generating magnetic
structures. It allows the definition of magnetic structures using several
different ways, depending on the `mode` parameter. The generated magnetic
structure is stored in the [obj.mag_str] field. The magetic structure is
stored as Fourier components with arbitrary number of wave vectors in the
[spinw](spinw) object. However spin waves can be only calculated if the magnetic
structure has a single propagation vector (plus a k=0 ferromagnetic
component perpendicular to the incommensurate magnetization), we simply
call it single-k magnetic structure. Thus `genmagstr` enables to input
magnetic structures that comply with this restriction by defining a
magnetic structure by the moment directions (`S`) in the crystallographic
cell, a propagation vector (`km`) and a vector that defines the normal of
the rotation of the spin spiral (`n`). The function converts these values
into Fourier components to store. To solve spin wave dispersion of
magnetic structures with multiple propagation vectors, a magnetic
supercell has to be defined where the propagation vector can be
approximated to zero.
  
### Examples
  
The example creates the multi-k magnetic structure of USb given by the
`FQ` Fourier components and plots the magnetic structure:
  
```matlab
USb = spinw
USb.genlattice('lat_const',[6.203 6.203 6.203],'spgr','F m -3 m')
USb.addatom('r',[0 0 0],'S',1)
FQ = cat(3,[0;0;1+1i],[0;1+1i;0],[1+1i;0;0])
```
*Output*
```
FQ(:,:,1) =
   0.0000 + 0.0000i
   0.0000 + 0.0000i
   1.0000 + 1.0000i
FQ(:,:,2) =
   0.0000 + 0.0000i
   1.0000 + 1.0000i
   0.0000 + 0.0000i
FQ(:,:,3) =
   1.0000 + 1.0000i
   0.0000 + 0.0000i
   0.0000 + 0.0000i
```
 
```matlab
k  = [0 0 1;0 1 0;1 0 0];
USb.genmagstr('mode','fourier','S',FQ,'nExt',[1 1 1],'k',k)
plot(USb,'range',[1 1 1])
```
 
{% include image.html file="generated/spinw_genm_1.png" alt="plot(USb,'range',[1 1 1])" %}
 
### Input Arguments
  
`obj`
: [spinw](spinw) object.
  
### Name-Value Pair Arguments
  
`'mode'`
: Mode that determines how the magnetic structure is generated:
  * `'random'` (reads -)
     generates random zero-k magnetic structure.
  * `'direct'` (reads `S`,`n`,`k`)
          direct input of the magnetic structure using the 
          parameters of the single-k magnetic structure.
  * `'tile'` (reads `S`,`n`,`k`) 
          Simply extends the existing or input structure
          (`S`) into a magnetic supercell by replicating it.
          If no structure is stored in the [spinw](spinw) object a random
          structure is generated automatically. If defined,
          `S` is used as starting structure for extension
          overwriting the stored structure. If the original
          structure is already extended with other size, only the
          moments in the crystallographic cell wil be replicated.
          Magnetic ordering wavevector `k` will be set to zero. To
          generate structure with non-zero k, use the `'helical'` or
          `'direct'` option.
  * `'helical'` (reads `S`,`n`,`k`,`r0`)
          generates helical structure in a single cell or in a
          supercell. In contrary to the `'extend'` option the
          magnetic structure is not generated by replication but
          by rotation of the moments using the following formula:
 
    $$\mathbf{S}^{gen}_i(\mathbf{r}) = R(2 \pi \mathbf{k_m} \cdot \mathbf{r})\cdot \mathbf{S}_i$$
 
    where $$S_i$$ has either a single moment or as many moments
          as the number of magnetic atoms in the crystallographic
          cell. In the first case $$r$$ denotes the atomic
          positions, while for the second case $$r$$ denotes the
          position of the origin of the cell.
  * `'rotate'` (reads `S`,`n`,`k`)
          uniform rotation of all magnetic moments with a
          `phi` angle around the given `n` vector. If
          `phi=0`, all moments are rotated so, that the first
          moment is parallel to `n` vector in case of
          collinear structure or in case of planar structure
          `n` defines the normal of the plane of the magnetic
          moments.
  * `'func'` (reads `func`,`x0`)
          function that defines the parameters of the single-k
          magnetic structure: moment vectors, propagation vector
          and normal vector from arbitrary parameters in the
          following form:
    ```matlab
    [S, k, n] = @(x)func(S0, x)
    ```  
    where `S` is matrix with dimensions of $$[3\times n_{magExt}]$$. `k` is
          the propagation vector in a 3-element row vector. `n` is the
          normal vector of the spin rotation plane also 3-element row
          vector. The default value for `func` is `@gm_spherical3d`. For planar
          magnetic structure use `@gm_planar`. Only `func` and `x`
          have to be defined for this mode.
 * `'fourier'` (reads `S`,`n`,`k`,`r0`)
          same as `'helical'`, except the `S` option is taken as the
          Fourier components, thus if it contains real numbers, it will
          generate a sinusoidally modulated structure instead of
          a spiral.
  
`'phi'`
: Angle of rotation of the magnetic moments in radian. Default
  value is 0.
  
`'phid'`
: Angle of rotation of the magnetic moments in °. Default
  value is 0.
  
`'nExt'`
: Size of the magnetic supercell in multiples of the
  crystallographic cell, dimensions are $$[1\times 3]$$. Default value is
  stored in `obj`. If `nExt` is a single number, then the size of the
  extended unit cell is automatically determined from the first
  magnetic ordering wavevector. E.g. if `nExt = 0.01`, then the number
  of unit cells is determined so, that in the extended unit cell,
  the magnetic ordering wave vector is `[0 0 0]`, within the given
  0.01 rlu tolerance.
  
`'k'`
: Magnetic ordering wavevector in rlu, dimensions are $$[n_K\times 3]$$.
  Default value is defined in `obj`.
  
`'n'`
: Normal vector to the spin rotation plane for single-k magnetic
  structures, stored in a 3-element row vector. Default value `[0 0 1]`. The
  coordinate system of the vector is determined by `unit`.
  
`'S'`
: Vector values of the spins (expectation value), dimensions are $$[3\times n_{spin} n_K]$$.
  Every column defines the three $$(S_x, S_y, S_z)$$ components of
  the spin (magnetic moment) in the $$xyz$$ Descartes coodinate system or
  in lu. Default value is stored in `obj`.
  
`'unit'`
: Determines the coordinate system for `S` and `n` vectors using a
  string:
  * `'xyz'`   Cartesian coordinate system, fixed to the lattice.
              Default value.
  * `'lu'`	Lattice coordinate system (not necessarily
              Cartesian. The three coordinate vectors are
              parallel to the lattice vectors but normalized to
              unity.
  
`'epsilon'`
: The smalles value of incommensurability that is
  tolerated without warning in lattice units. Default is $$10^{-5}$$.
  
`'func'`
: Function handle that produces the magnetic moments, ordering wave
  vector and normal vector from the `x` parameters in the
  following form:
  ```matlab
  [M, k, n] = @(x)func(M0,x)
  ```
  where `M` is a matrix with dimensions of $$[3\times n_{magExt}]$$, `k` is
  the propagation vector, `n` is the normal vector of the spin rotation
  plane. The default function is [gm_spherical3d](gm_spherical3d). For planar magnetic
  structure use [gm_planar](gm_planar).
  
`'x0'`
: Input parameters for `func` function, row vector with $$n_X$$ number of
  elements.
  
`'norm'`
: Set the length of the generated magnetic moments to be equal to
  the spin of the magnetic atoms. Default is `true`.
  
`'r0'`
: If `true` and only a single spin direction is given, the spin
  phases are determined by atomic position times k-vector, while
  if it is `false`, the first spin will have 0 phase. Default is
  `true`.
  
### Output Arguments
  
The [obj.mag_str] field will contain the new magnetic structure.
  
### See Also
  
[spinw](spinw) \| [spinw.anneal](spinw_anneal) \| [spinw.optmagstr](spinw_optmagstr) \| [gm_spherical3d](gm_spherical3d) \| [gm_planar](gm_planar)
 
*[rlu]: Reciprocal Lattice Units
*[lu]: Lattice Units
 

{% include links.html %}
